CRAIG
Why don't we go ahead,
Trevor, and you can give us your background
and then we'll talk about speechmatics?
TREVOR
Yeah, sure. So
it's great to be speaking to you today. Thank you
so much for the time. I guess my background is,
basically, I loved space as a kid. You know, I
was the guy with the space posters up all over
my bedroom wall. So I ended up doing
a PhD in Computational Astrophysics,
simulating the early universe. But as I got nearer
to the end of my PhD, I kind of realized that
about five to ten people in the world would care
about what research I was doing. Because I was
simulating the early universe, it's probably never
observable to prove the simulations I was running,
let alone in my lifetime. So that's why I went
into AI looking for a bit more real-world impact.
CRAIG
When was that? When did you make the switch?
TREVOR
It was back in 2012. So I finished my PhD at
the University of Edinburgh in 2012 and randomly
got introduced to the cofounders of DeepMind back
when the company was about 15 people or so. And
I joined them as the first product manager there.
CRAIG
Wow,
that's wonderful. And Edinburgh, then you were
at Geoff Hinton's alma mater, is that right?
TREVOR
So I was based up at the Royal Observatory.
I had to cycle up the hill every day, which kept
me nice and fit. I like to say that I really
should have befriended somebody in the computer
science department because having somebody that
really knew how to code would have got my PhD
done a lot faster than me doing it by myself.
CRAIG
Yeah. And Geoff, then that year–
Ilya, and Alex Krizhevsky, were making the big
breakthrough. Were you aware of that at the time?
TREVOR
I joined DeepMind around
the 12th of April and I think it was literally
a week either side of that AlexNet came out on
ImageNet and took the world by storm. So yeah, it
was good timing for me to jump into the AI domain.
CRAIG
Yeah. And
who did you meet a DeepMind that took you there?
TREVOR
Yeah. So I initially met with Mustafa Suleyman,
who was one of the co-founders there, and spent
some time with him and with a guy called Ben
Coppin, who was the first, sort of, applied
AI person and engineering manager. And then,
interviewed with Demis Hassabis, Shane Legg, and
a few of the other senior leaders there. Yeah,
I was grilled for a few hours and
then an offer was made. It was great.
CRAIG
Wow, that's really fantastic. I mean, what
an incredible group of people. And I'm surprised
that you left. So how did you get to Speechmatics?
TREVOR
Yeah, so I spent almost a decade at DeepMind,
always on the applied side. So in the very early
days, we were looking for a variety of different
applications. We ended up working on an iOS
game. As Demiss's background is heavily in games,
I spent most of my interview with him talking
about Theme Park and how many hours of my youth
I'd wasted on that. We were also working on image
recognition for fashion back in the day, looking
at shape, pattern, color type aspects from the
image. And then when we were acquired by Google
in 2014, I ended up working on a whole range of
applications including YouTube recommendations,
Google Ads, self-driving car efforts, wearables,
activity recognition. Then around 2015, Deep Mind
decided to start up its healthcare project.
So I helped sort of co-start that and spent,
sort of, four or five years working on
a range of applications in healthcare,
including in ophthalmology with Moorfields
Hospital. In fact, when I heard your podcast,
Eye on AI, we had that same play in our project
there. But then I moved and transitioned to
DeepMind Science and ended up working with
the AlphaFold team and exploring sort of the
early commercialization efforts of that which
morphed into Isomorphic Labs. But essentially,
I kind of felt like Isomorphic Labs was going to
be another quite research-focused effort. And I'd
spent a lot of time working on incredible projects
with amazing algorithms, incredible people,
just absolutely fantastic minds. But I always
felt like we had not quite made that leap from the
research into having that real-world impact. I had
an opportunity to start my own startup so I left
DeepMind to do that. I spent a couple of years
there working on applications in supply chain, in
manufacturing, and in E-commerce was particularly
focused on the application of these algorithms to
real-world problems. But then, the Speechmatics
offer came around and to me, speech is clearly
going to be a core part of any future AGI stack.
Speechmatics has the best-in-class technology so
there's a huge opportunity here for us to really
define, what does it mean to have speech in AGI.
CRAIG
Yeah, that's fascinating.
I've had an Oriol Vinyals on the podcast. If
you were working on AlphaFold, I'm sure you
know him. Speechmatics, you are focused on speech
recognition. Is that right? Not speech generation?
TREVOR
That's right. We
have a mission to understand every voice. So the
research here is very focused on, how do you get
the most out of audio coming in. And there is a
lot that goes into recognizing texts from speech.
But obviously, there's, just a huge amount of
other information in that audio domain as well,
as well as just the words that were said.
Equally, I think there's a fallacy that,
speech solved. I like to say that there's two
people in the world, there's people that think
that speech is solved and there's people that
have used Siri, Alexa, or Google Now. So we're
still a long way from really being able to have a
speech Turing test, a way for us to have a Turing
test via voices where we can't tell whether
it's a computer or a human on the other end.
CRAIG
Listening,
you mean, or a human on the other
end, or a computer speaking.
TREVOR
Yeah
CRAIG
You mentioned Siri,
and I actually built an LLM-based app
for iOS and you're tied into the iOS
speech-to-text and it's terrible– it's not
terrible but there’s very little nuance.
TREVOR
So the
built-in iOS dictation and a lot of the other
providers out there, everyone's generally good
at recognizing voices like mine and yours. With a
clear English accent, in a nice quiet background,
with not a lot of other speakers going on. Now,
we know that that's not the case for a huge amount
of people in the world. There's 1000s of languages
spoken in the world. There's millions and billions
of non-English speakers who don't have the same
experience through speech recognition. And then,
you don't have to go further than the UK or the
US to realize there's a huge range of different
accents, dialects, and ways of people speaking. So
really, it's about how do you get to the point for
the speech recognition to be able to understand
every voice and not just the standard voice. And
you also want to be able to do that in real-world
scenarios. So if you think about, as you're
sitting in a cafe, if you're having a conversation
with people on WhatsApp or any text service while
you're sitting in the cafe, it's send a note,
receive a note, send a note, receiver a note,
it's a very structured conversation. So you can
imagine lots of AI tools being helpful in that
scenario. But if you imagine then bringing your
friends into that cafe and having a conversation
with them, it's much more dynamic, it's much more
fluid. You can imagine closing your eyes and still
having the same conversation, recognizing
speakers from other tables but ignoring
them. If you dropped Siri, Alexa, or a lot of
services into that it would just completely fall
over and fail. So the challenge becomes, how do
you understand, recognize, and be responsive in
an environment like that in a way that is human.
So for that you need to be able to, in my eyes,
understand what was said, who said it, how it
was said. So we're still not there with all
three of those things. So that's what we here
at Speechmatics are really focusing on doing.
CRAIG
Yeah.
And I'm really interested in the research
and science behind it but for application,
where do you see the largest application?
Is it in transcription or dictation?
TREVOR
So we already provide services to
hundreds of different customers. So Speechmatics
has been going for just over a decade, although
the founder, who was working on recurrent
neural networks back in the 1980s, for speech
recognition, would say it's been going for a lot
longer. We've got hundreds of large enterprise
customers that are transcribing millions of hours
every month. Speechmatics is a very horizontal
offering, we go out to a lot of different
industries, a lot of different use cases. Some of
our biggest industries include the media, things
like live captioning on sports games, those types
of things. We've got a lot of customers in call
center applications, that side of things. We've
got a lot of customers in edtech, making their
lectures and other things accessible for a broader
audience. And then we've got government defense
and a lot of other areas that we can go into. So
I think there's a huge number of use cases for
ASR. But I do think that as AI has progressed,
and particularly the impact of large language
models, means that suddenly you can take a large
amount of an unprocessed raw transcript in text
form and very quickly and easily pull insights,
value, actionable information from these raw large
text files. So suddenly, there's this wealth of
information that can come from turning your audio
into texts and then using large language models
to do something valuable with it. So we're seeing
just a massive increase in the number of use cases
and the number of customers that really want to
leverage ASR for a huge array of new domains.
CRAIG
Yeah. So talk
a little bit about the science behind that.
And what advances has Speechmatics made to
make your system stronger, or superior,
whichever– superlative, you want to use?
TREVOR
Yeah, so our favorite
metric is really focused in on that high accuracy,
and more recently, low latency in particular as
well. So the company has always built the system
to be focused, on how do we achieve the highest
accuracy. And that is for our core service but
it's also for any additional new language that we
build. So we offer across 50+ languages now but we
don't just release any language, we only release a
language once we've got to a certain accuracy
that we're happy. Now, the way we get there
is quite different from the way a lot of others
go. So a lot of our competitors build end-to-end
models where they build a huge data set, pump
it through one large single end-to-end model,
and get the output out. That enables them to
provide one single model that's multilingual but
there's no free lunch in machine learning. So any
breath that you add there will take away from the
depth that you get. So you see a decrease, a quite
rapid decrease, in accuracy as you get out to the
lower range of languages where there's less data,
less representation of that language in the data
set. What we do is, we utilize multiple techniques
to get the best out of both worlds. So we train a
very large self-supervised, what we call body,
which is unlabeled data, millions of hours,
it’s a bit like an end-to-end model but it's
the raw audio that goes in. A lot of the noises
and sounds that we make when we speak is similar
across languages so it learns a representation of
the audio data. We then have a separate body that
we call the acoustic body. That's where we train
on labeled data, but it uses the self-supervised
learning body as a feed into it. So it uses the
embeddings from self-supervised to help improve
it. This enables us to get very high accuracy on
a low amount of labeled data, which is why we
get such high accuracy. It's because even in
English where there is a large amount of labeled
data, it also means we get high accuracies on the
less well-represented data in that. So we get
better at accents, we get better at dialects,
we get better at localizations. Then for
languages where there's a lot less labeled
data– labeling audio data is very expensive. It
means that we can get to very high accuracies on,
like 100x less data than our competitors. So we
get that best of both worlds in our single model.
CRAIG
Yeah. On languages with
less data available, I've spoken to people that
work on indigenous languages, languages that are
disappearing. Do you augment the supervised
learning, the label data for those cases?
TREVOR
So we don't do
indigenous languages at the moment. One of the
reasons is because when you use this low amount
of labeled data, you want the data to then be
as accurately labeled as physically possible.
So we use a lot of third-party providers to
provide very high-quality transcripts of the
low amounts of data and that is a lot harder
to do for some of the less well-known. We've
got out to about 50 languages and we're continuing
to try and expand that. We hope to get another 10,
20 by the end of this year, for instance. But
we tend to still be focused on the languages
where there is also some commercial value at
the moment. But our system could very easily
be used to help save some of these languages if
the right data was available for us to train on.
CRAIG
Yeah.
And the unsupervised model, is it looking at
phonemes or different parts of speech? I've
talked to people that are building
music generation software and they
focus on individual notes of individual
instruments and then build up from there.
TREVOR
That’s right. That
is very much focused on the phoneme level of
understanding at the current time. So the team
has worked on that since, I think 2018 was the
first time we started really playing around with
transformers for doing that type of methodology.
So we built a lot of useful structures and ways
of augmenting the data such that transformers
work really well on it. One of the things we
are quite excited about for the future though,
is multiscale representation. So currently,
we sort of break the data down into phoneme-type
temporal cuts. But obviously, what we're saying
has some impact on the word level, in terms
of recognizing what words have been said,
but it's also very useful to know longer
timescales, what's going on there. And
this is essentially how large language models
have got so good as well. We want to explore
those different timescales, get different
representations of those multiscale timescales,
and see whether that will also greatly improve
not just the recognition of words from what
was being said but also potentially understand
more of the other audio aspects like intonation,
emotion, sentiment, or hopefully, the thing on
my bucket list for this is understanding sarcasm.
CRAIG
That's interesting.
On that note, you were referred to being the
speech component for AGI at some point. Is
that the end goal: that the Speechmatics
system becomes so sensitive to things like
sarcasm or emotion that it will plug into
whatever AGI system eventually emerges?
TREVOR
So I think for the last decade, Speechmatics has
been really focused in on, how do we understand
the most from that audio coming in, and we'll
continue to do so. We've been playing around
with large language models to provide sentiment,
topic detection, summarization, or chapterisation,
and things like this. But I think one of the most
exciting use cases for large language models as
we've seen from the takeoff of ChatGPT, Claude,
or others, is this chatbot-type persona. And also,
over the last couple of years, we've seen massive
generational leaps in text-to-speech synthesis.
We've got to the point where we can now synthesize
a lot of different voices, make them much more
realistic, not the monotone that we're used to
with some of the more historical synthesis voices.
So we got to the point where you could argue that
we passed the Turing test on a keyboard-based
system playing with a large language model. But
what if we put audio in? So ASR, combined with an
LLM, combined with text-to-speech: you get this
audio-in, audio-out type agent that could provide
you this seamless, responsive-type interaction.
So here is Speechmatics we've been building
something that we've called Flow, which is
this audio-in, audio-out conversational AI tool.
Now, a lot of people have plugged together ASR,
LLM, and text-to-speech but what you find is those
systems are often quite stinted. It's often quite
slow. If you've ever played with the voice aspect
of ChatGPT, it still takes a long time to respond,
you're still having that WhatsApp-based structure
conversation where it's waiting for one to go and
all that side of things. Where you want to get
to is much more of that– from the movie Her,
that really seamless, flowing conversation
that you can have with another human. And
that requires low latency responses, it requires
being able to interrupt, and it requires being
able to understand not just text, but sneezes,
coughs, size, all that type of stuff. And it
also requires understanding who is having the
conversation. So Flow uses our best-in-class ASR.
It includes our diarization, which means that it
can recognize who it’s speaking to. And we built a
conversational engine part that enables it to have
this very fast, rapid interaction with the large
language model and text-to-speech component to
enable a truly responsive type of conversational
assistant. So yeah, we're really excited to be
hopefully launching this on Wednesday this week,
so in July, and bringing it to some of our
early adopters and customers very soon.
CRAIG
And the
knowledge base and the reasoner, do you
have your own LLM in there? I'm sorry if
you just said that. Or, are you making an
API call to ChatGPT, Claude, or something?
TREVOR
So we've built
it to be LLM agnostic. I think what we've
seen in the LLM space is rapid development
from a lot of different players. I imagine lots of
customers have a preference as to which one they
would like to use. So what we've done is we've
brought Llama 3 into our service, we can self-host
it ourselves. So that can adhere to any privacy,
security, compliance concerns that anybody may
have. But you can easily plug that into GPT,
Claude, Cohere, or Gemini, whichever one you would
prefer to use. We don't plan on doing our own
LLM. I think there's a lot of resources and other
people building bigger and better LLMs. Our domain
expertise is really understanding that audio and
that speech. And I think that's the opportunity
for Speechmatics: is that these LLMs are only
going to be as good as what they can hear. We want
to make sure they can hear really, really well.
CRAIG
Yeah. I want to talk more about Flow
but on the research side, can you handle multiple
voices simultaneously and parse them? I had a guy
from Google on, a year or so ago, who was working
on bird calls. They were working on– when you're
listening to a cacophony of birds in the jungle
or deep forest, pulling apart that sound and
identifying individual streams. I also am sort
of a backyard birdwatcher. I have the Cornell
Ornithology Lab app; I don't know if you've
ever used it. It's really remarkable. If there
are 10 birds, it will list all 10; so it's able to
differentiate. Can you do that with human speech?
TREVOR
So I would say there's a
spectrum. We definitely are able to understand
different voices. So if I got out Flow now,
it would recognize my voice, it would recognize
your voice, it would be able to say who said what.
And in a busy environment, it would still
recognize our voices despite an array of other
people around us. And then there's– so you get
to the noisy environment and then there's really
strong crosstalk. Maybe in some US political
situation where there's just lots of people
shouting at each other, it's hard for a human to
recognize all of that going on. So that's still
a research project for us to get to in terms
of, how do you truly pull apart the words that
were said by all the different voices at that
one time. So we haven't got to that level of
true pulling apart really deep crosstalk. But
in a call center, with an irate customer where
they're over talking over the employee that's
trying to calm them down, we're able to do that.
There's a research trajectory on that front.
But I would say that we have the best in class
diarization for speech recognition. And I would
also argue that is a really critical step in
having an assistant that can actually help you
in real-world scenarios. So if I was walking
down the street talking to ChatGPT and somebody
else walked past, it would pick up what they were
saying and it would think that that was what
I was saying as well, whereas with diarization
it knows to listen to only me. You can also then
use that to set up things like, [only respond to
me]. So you've got an assistant, it’s hearing the
whole conversation that's going on, but it'll only
take an action or respond to a question if I say
it rather than if anybody else in the room says.
CRAIG
Actually,
I wear hearing aids. That's one of the challenges
of hearing aids; in a party or something you can't
differentiate between voices very well. Are there
applications like that for hearing augmentation?
TREVOR
I think that's a very good application
for us to think about for the future. I know that
our founder Tony Robinson also wears a hearing
aid so it's certainly a strong area of focus for
him. One of the opportunities here is, currently
we built this first incarnation of Flow to be very
focused on the mobile device space. I think that's
a great place for people to test it, explore
it, find what works for them. But I'd be really
excited about thinking about putting it into
something with multi-directional microphones. So
then you can start really getting an extra layer
of information out from the diarization, which I
imagine will work very well in a hearing aid case,
where it would listen primarily to people that
maybe you're looking at and maybe tone down some
of the stuff that is happening in your periphery.
CRAIG
Yeah. So
Flow is being released as an API or smartphone
app? How are people going to interact with it?
TREVOR
So we're very similar to our ASR in that, we
provide an API such that people can build speech
recognition into any product that they're building
today. We have an online portal on our website,
that way people can go in and play with it and
test it themselves but we don't do a vertically
integrated product ourselves. We instead enable
others to build that into whatever products they
are taking to their customers. I think that that's
ultimately what we want to do here; we want to
say, we want to enable any product, any technology
to be seamlessly integrated with the thing that
comes most natural to us, like our voice. So,
how do we enable any product to suddenly become
keyboard free, mouse free, touchpad free,
and suddenly become usable using your voice?
I know that a lot of people don't use Siri
because it's frustrating sometimes when it doesn't
recognize what you say. So it's kind of surprising
that we don't have more products today that are
leveraging our voices. We think Flows are our
inflection point where we get to the point where
technology can be used with our voices. So we're
going to release Flow as a conversational AI API
so that anybody and everyone can integrate their
products and enable their product to be interfaced
with through their customers' voices. Now, we're
also going to release a, sort of, app version
of it. But that's mostly to sort of showcase the
technology and enable people to understand what
is now possible, rather than having to plug and
play an API just to be able to test it. I think
it's a little bit like, you know, OpenAI have
released ChatGPT for everyone to use and play
with but ultimately, they're selling an API to
enterprise customers to enable them to integrate
large language models into their products.
CRAIG
Yeah. And does iOS allow the microphone
to be taken over by another ASR?
TREVOR
So you can build
into an app a different ASR. You still have to use
the multiple microphones that are built in. But in
an app setting, you're allowed to use different
things other than the iOS dictation. Obviously,
other people would build on top of what we're
offering to provide actions. So if Apple were
to use our service, the conversational AI service,
we would become the voice interface for Siri. Then
Siri would still take all the action calls
to tell you, what is the weather today,
set a timer for five minutes, and all the
standard things that you do with Siri.
CRAIG
Yeah. Are you talking to Apple?
TREVOR
Well,
I think we should be. Hopefully after this
podcast they'll hear it speak and get in touch.
CRAIG
Yeah. And since this is– I do
video but this also goes out in audio format,
can you give us a demo while we're recording?
TREVOR
Yeah. Hopefully,
my team has finished doing a load balance test.
CRAIG
Okay. If not that’s okay.
TREVOR
I'm just getting
it open here. So I will just press
play on here and we can get started.
(Demo begins)
Hey, Humphrey,
can you respond to me and only to me, please?
HUMPHREY (Flow) 33:45
Oh, sorry about that. Yeah,
no problem. I'll make sure to respond only
to you from now on. How's it going there?
TREVOR
That's enough for now.
What I've done here is I've put it into passive
mode. So it's still listening to what we're
saying, it's still transcribing what's being said
but it will no longer respond to me. But you saw
from that first interaction how quick and how
seamlessly responded to my first interaction?
CRAIG
Yeah. And it
won't respond if I say, hey Humphrey, how
are you today? It's not going to respond?
TREVOR
Well, I think it may have woken
up from that. But if I now said it strongly:
so hey Humphrey, are you listening to me?
HUMPHREY (Flow)
Yeah, I'm listening.
TREVOR
Great. So there
are multiple speakers in this conversation
we're having, please can you only respond to
my voice and not to the other person
in the conversation? Is that okay?
HUMPHREY (Flow)
Yeah, no problem. I'll only
respond to you from now on.
CRAIG
Yeah. So hey,
Humphrey. What's the weather
like in New York today?
TREVOR
Could you
potentially tell Humphrey a little bit more about
yourself and maybe a bit about this podcast?
CRAIG
Yeah. So I'm
a former New York Times correspondent. I got
interested in AI after meeting Geoff Hinton
for a story that I wrote (coughs)– (Humphrey
initiates response)– and I, (coughs) I ended
up starting the podcast so that I would have
the opportunity to speak to researchers without
having to promise that I was going to write
an article. (Humphrey initiates response)–
TREVOR
Okay, great.
So Humphrey tried to interrupt you a couple
of times there. I think the cough may have
set it off. But if I said, [Humphrey, who
is it that I'm speaking to at the moment?]
HUMPHREY (Flow)
Ah, yeah. I'm Humphrey. Nice to meet you.
TREVOR
And who else is in the conversation with us?
HUMPHREY (Flow)
There's you and then
there's two other speakers. Let's call them
the second speaker and the third speaker.
TREVOR
That's great. And let me just pull up something.
One of the speakers comes from a particular
journal. Could you tell me which journal that is?
HUMPHREY (Flow)
The second speaker,
I think is a former New York Times correspondent.
TREVOR
So the system
can remember what's been said and keep it back
and still assigns it to a speaker. So we could
also do this where we tell it our names and then
it remembers that I'm Trevor and you're Craig,
rather than speaker one and speaker
two. I think one of the potentially
powerful demos I'd love to show you, if we
just have two minutes here is, there was a
recent article about McDonald's using IBM to do
drive-thru recognition and the demo didn't go
so well. So I haven't programmed this in any way
for this. I'm just going to prompt it to find my
voice to be a McDonald's assistant and then we'll
see how it does. Is that alright if I try that?
CRAIG
Yeah, sounds great.
TREVOR
Hey Humphrey,
I'd like you to pretend to be a McDonald's
drive-thru agent. Is that all right?
HUMPHREY (Flow)
Ah, yeah. That's alright mate. I'll do
my best to take your order and all that.
Welcome to McDonald's. Can
I take your order today?
TREVOR
Yeah. Could I get a Big Mac meal,
large, with a Coke? Can I also get six chicken
nugs and can I also get a bacon McFlurry, please?
HUMPHREY (Flow)
Okay. So to confirm, you'd like a
Big Mac meal, large size, with a Coke, six-piece
Chicken McNuggets, and a bacon McFlurry, right?
TREVOR
Yeah,
that'd be great, please. Do you
definitely do bacon McFlurries?
HUMPHREY (Flow)
Ah yeah, we do the
bacon McFlurry. It's a popular one. I'll just
put that all together for you. Would you like
to try our mobile payment and pickup
or would you like to pay the window?
TREVOR
I’ll pay at the window. Thanks very much.
HUMPHREY (Flow)
No problem at all.
Your total comes out to be– let me just
check;It’ll be £11.99. I'll have everything
ready for you at the next window. Please
drive up and we'll get you all fixed up.
TREVOR
Thanks
very much, Humphrey.
(Demo concludes)
CRAIG
That's interesting.
So a couple of questions, first, is
it only responding with the wake word?
TREVOR
So you can set it up in multiple
different ways. You can set it up to only respond
when you say the wake word, Humphrey, which isn't
the persona that we've currently given it. You can
give it any persona you'd like or you can set it
to a much more lively mode where it's always on,
always responding. Or, you can even set it to not
have a wake word, but try and work out when is the
right time to engage in the conversation. This to
me– that's where the power of large language
models really comes in. You suddenly have this
generalizable tool that can try and work out, when
is the right time to interact in the conversation?
CRAIG
Yeah. On that point,
do you know the company Tenyx, T-e-n-y-x? I
had them on the podcast, but they're working,
actually, with fast food places on this kind
of solution. One of the problems that they
have focused on is endpoint prediction: when
does the model know that you finish speaking
and that you're not just pausing? Is that
something that you guys have spent time on?
TREVOR
Yeah, so when we did the first version of this,
we tried to look into the endpoint prediction
in the ASR model. We already do that fairly
well for including punctuation in our ASR.
But what we found was that when you get to
the conversational AI element, it creates this
unnatural latency when you finish speaking. So
what we actually found was that instead, if you're
finding the right way to put the information from
the ASR into the LLM as quickly as possible
and then enabling a few different approaches,
so understanding when is the right time
to respond, that gives you this much
more seamless interaction. Then the other really
critical point is interruption. So with ChatGPT,
if you're speaking to, when it's speaking back,
you can't interrupt. You have to touch the screen
to interrupt it– sorry, I don't know if you
can hear the ice cream truck in the background.
Whereas with ours, what we built in is this
ability to interrupt it with your voice.
So if it does accidentally start before you
finished, if you're a slow talker or if you
pause for intonation and it does try and respond,
if you carry on speaking, it will just naturally
stop. It will continue to listen to the whole
conversation, and it will merge that whole section
together. So it’ll understand that it's not a
completely different request between the break.
CRAIG
Yeah.
And this is kind of funny because as I mentioned,
I build something; it's also model agnostic. I
drive a lot and I'm always curious about what's
around me. So I wanted something that would give
me the history of the places I'm driving past.
It's got a wake word and, I mean, it's just
for me right now. Right now it's using GPT-4o,
which hallucinates but for my purposes– you know
when it’s hallucinating; it's pretty good.
Would this do this? If you asked Humphrey,
what's the history of Chappaqua, New York,
for example, would it in its knowledge base,
presuming the Llama 2’s training data
includes that, would it find that and respond?
TREVOR
So I think some of the most fascinating examples
of Speechmatics employees trying it have been
exactly the scenario you've been talking about,
where people have been driving in the car, they're
bored of the radio, they just want to have a play
around and they turn it on. And they end up having
a conversation about something that they're going
past at the moment. So yeah, Llama 3 appears to
be pretty well tacked up to the history of the
Cambridge area, which is where we're based, in
Cambridge and London. It does a pretty good job
of that. Obviously, it has the same issues as
all large language models and sometimes if it
doesn't know, it will just make something up. But
I've also had some fairly in-depth conversations
with it about Monte Carlo methods, hidden Markov
models, and recurrent neural networks and it does
a pretty good job. There's clearly a lot of texts
about that out on the internet at the moment. The
great thing is that the voice it gives you back
makes it feel like an engaging experience. It
makes it feel like you're not just reading a wall
of generated text but instead, you're having this
deeper conversation and you're actually learning
through engagement and interaction rather than
by having to scroll through a lot of bullet
points that come out to you on the screen.
CRAIG
Yeah. So this is being
released as API to be built into other products,
but you are releasing the app that you were just
demonstrating?
TREVOR
So in two days time we're having our launch
event. So we'll be doing a demo up on stage,
in front of an audience of, I think it's 50,
60 people. I think it’s also going to join our
panel. So if that goes well expect Flow to join
a few other panels as well; maybe in the future
it could come on this podcast and you can do a
pod with them. Yeah, hopefully then launching
live. If people want to find out more I'd highly
recommend them to go to speechmatics.com/flow.
There you can sign up to our waitlist and we can
give you comps and information about how to trade
out more. But we're very excited to think about
how to get this into the hands of more people
so that even more interesting use cases than
I can dream of can come up and come to us.
CRAIG
Yeah. I'm just curious,
why not release it as a B2C app? You are in
effect but why not promoted as a B2C app?
TREVOR
So I think there's a
lot of interesting examples of exploring large
language models through this interaction but
I think what people want the most is a problem
of there's, a use case of theirs to be solved.
There's an awful lot of incredible products
already out there in the market that I think
could be massively improved if we were able to
interact with them through our voice. I think
we've probably reached peak chatbot-based apps on
our phones, we've all probably got a bit bored of
having the same conversation with LLMs. I think
the most powerful use cases will come through
when we integrate these with products that
we use every day, day in and day out but we
no longer have to get out, type something in,
or touch the screen, and work our way through
a UI but instead can just utilize natural
language to give our technology a command
and it understands us, recognizes the context,
and takes an action based on what we've said.
CRAIG
Yeah. Do you
think that Siri working with OpenAI, I hope
eventually with you, that it will become the
killer iPhone app that will take actions, answer
questions about history, and everything like that?
TREVOR
I think the main
limitation of Siri, aside from not being able to
understand every voice, sounding a bit robotic,
was that it just how structured it was. So it
always felt limited in the way you could leverage
it to take actions. So that's why everyone just
uses it to set a timer for all their chickens,
because that's the useful use case. I think
large language models give you the ability
to understand more complex natural language and
then understand what actions need to be taken.
So I think Siri plus GPT is definitely a
massive step forward. But I would still
sort of say that garbage in garbage out. You
really need to understand what is being said,
who is it being said by, and how is it
being said to really be able to get to that
killer app. Which is why I truly believe that
speech is a core part of any future AGI stack.
CRAIG
On the
various languages, what's the most obscure
language that you've trained it on so far?
TREVOR
Oh, I don't know;
there's a few I guess. I guess we're
going into Tagalog at the moment,
I think is one of the ones we're exploring.
You've put me on the spot here. I can't think
of which one is the most obscure. I’d probably be
offending somebody if I said too many languages.
CRAIG
That's right.
I guess obscure is the wrong word.
You do Icelandic, Latvian, Burmese…
TREVOR
So we have just
finished covering off all the languages that
are required for the EU. So we just finished
Maltese and an improvement on Irish,
which means that we're covered for some
EU regulation that's coming in very soon for
that. We've recently released Hebrew, Persian,
and we've just done a big uplift on Arabic. One of
the things I would say with Arabic is obviously,
there's a huge range of different languages
within Arabic. But what we've been able to
do because of our combination of self-supervised
with the acoustic model with the label data, is we
work a global Arabic model. So it can understand
all the different languages and dialects within
Arabic rather than having to choose which one you
want to focus in on. We're particularly excited
to be releasing those and watch this space open
more. You can always go on to the Speechmatics
website and check out our list of 50 languages if
there's something you know you want to explore.
CRAIG
Yeah. And that's speechmatics.com. Is that right?
TREVOR
That's right.
CRAIG
On the
pulling apart voices in a crowd, where are
you on that? You mentioned national security
applications; that seems like
it would be a huge benefit.
TREVOR
So we offer diarization,
which is the term for understanding different
people speaking, on top of our ASR as a standard
feature for anyone to use. The scientific method
we use for doing that is a form of a clustering
technique where we sample and we try and cluster
on some t-SNE plot, different distribution of the
speakers. So if you have two different speakers
like in this conversation, then obviously, you
get quite a clear separation as long as we don't
sound too similar. So it's then generally quite
accurate in terms of recognizing which speaker is
the one that's been talking. As you increase the
number of speakers, you get some more and more
overlay in the cluster space. So we go up to,
you can do as many as you like, but I think
if you went more than 20 speakers you start
to see quite a significant degradation in
terms of recognizing which speaker it is.
It's a big part of our next research project
as well, alongside the multiscale: is that
we're also exploring how to get ever-improving
diarization results for more and more speakers.
CRAIG
Yeah. And how big is the team at Speechmatics?
TREVOR
So the company
has about 120 people. There's about 60
people on the engineering side and of them,
there's probably 20 also machine learning
researchers and engineers. So as a company,
we're quite sort of heavy on the research side.
I would consider us a bit of a bit of an applied
research lab where we're always doing fundamental
research, exploring other fundamental research,
and thinking about how do we bring this
into the speech domain. That's enabled
us to provide multiple revolutions in ASR from
the early days, where everybody was using Kaldi,
all the way through to using transformers today.
And I expect us to continue to explore and invest
in ways that we bring some of the latest and
greatest AI breakthroughs into the speech domain.